[Music]
invitation for nice discussion and wish
you success with the whole
sypos thank you so
much thank you bye-bye
goodbye Al whenever you
want um okay so it's this is who uh this
is the four of us
it's
yes no problem um yeah so um I'm Al gals
I'm a
psychologist uh in New
Mexico um I'm also the president of Mind
Freedom
International uh mind Freedom
International is an organization a
nonprofit organization that's been
advocating for human rights and
psychology in the mental health system
advocating for human rights and Mental
Health System since
1985 founded by David Oaks and Janet
foner and U so since that time time U
we've been really doing two things one
is three things one is advocating for
human rights in mental health the second
thing is uh informing the public about
what's going on and the way in which
people are being people's rights are
being violated by the mental health
system and the third thing is promoting
Alternatives promoting more safe Humane
life-enhancing ways of helping
people so
um one of the things we do is we have
What's called the Mind Freedom
shield and the mind Freedom Shield is a
solidarity network of people who join
the network and they agree to help each
other in the case in which a person is
going to be involuntarily committed or
forcibly treated and so what happens is
people who um who are involuntarily
committed uh call mind freedom and they
ask for an alert to be sent out and uh
an alert is sent out to the
network uh telling people about the
situation and giving people the the
names and telephone numbers and emails
of people they can call and um like
Hospital administrators psychiatrists
legislators uh etc etc
so and in fact I have to tell you that
Sarah Smith is on our call and Sarah
Smith is is uh our program manager at
mind freedom and she really runs uh the
the Mind Freedom shield shield
so um what we do is we we basically
raise hell we raise hell with people
about it we let them know what's going
on Hospital administrators psychiatrists
legislators
Governors um and we've had quite a bit
of success uh in fact um
Murphy was talking about uh helping a
person in Minnesota uh about 15 years
ago we helped a man named Ray Sanford
who was being involuntary electroshock
he was being electroshock against his
will um and um basically we went to
Minnesota and we had a series of public
meetings we met with
legislators um we eventually uh got him
freed from that the way did it was by
getting his Guardian to um to to use a
different psychiatrist to use a
psychiatrist who wouldn't order
electroshock uh so that was there are
various ways in which we can help people
who are being whose rights are being
violated that was uh one way
so um so what's going on in the United
States right now and I I would say over
the last 15
years there's been a movement to uh
involuntarily commit people to hospitals
and to forcibly treat people and that M
that movement has grown and continues to
grow
um so now every state every state uh has
a law that uh enables authorities to
involuntarily commit uh a person to a uh
Psychiatric
Hospital uh as an inpatient and all but
three states have laws that enable
authorities to force people into
treatment even if they're not in an
institution as
outpatients um only three states uh
actually don't have those kinds of laws
Maryland uh Massachusetts and
Connecticut so
um and and and when we talk about
political
abuses uh
Psychiatry
um uh basically Psychiatry is using the
government or the government is using
Psychiatry you could you I don't know
how you'd want to say it Psychiatry is
using the government but definitely
Psychiatry and the government are
complicit are
colluding in um in this this movement to
involuntarily commit people to treatment
and to force treatment
so just briefly how is this an abuse you
know how why would we call this an abuse
well uh I can think of three ways uh you
know one just incarcerating a person
against their will and without due uh
due process of law is is a is an abuse
and it's a political abuse obviously
because it's being done by
government um the second way it's an
abuse is that the treatment people
receive is harmful to them very harmful
uh because antipsychotic medicine if
we're talking about severe mental
illness anticho medicine is extremely
toxic uh it causes of discinesia if
you take that medicine for two years
three years you're going to come down
with Parkinson's disease the symptoms of
Parkinson's uh that isn't a surprise
since what the antipsychotics do is
reduce dopamin in the brain
brain well the cause of Parkinson's
disease is deficiency of dopamine and
the medicine that's used to treat
Parkinson is L Doopa it's a synthetic
dopamine so if you reduce dopamine you
increase the risk of a person uh getting
Parkinson's uh then you have uh
cognitive impairment brain shrinkage
this is all evidence increased risk of
diabetes and early death people
diagnosed with SK friend of the United
States died 25 years younger than other
people and there's there arguments about
why this is true yes they tend to be
obese uh they tend to
smoke maybe don't get good treatment but
it's a dose
responsive uh uh the dose responsive
thing so that the more neuroleptics the
more neuroleptic medicine people take
the earlier they die so uh this is a a
serious violation
uh I mean harming people in that way
against their will and then the third
way it's a violation is that the message
people get you have a brain
disorder um your brain is is not
functioning you have some kind of
biochemical problem genetic
problem that is very disempowering and
very cynical what is a person going to
do about that there's not much they can
do about it they're they're at the at
the mercy of by ological forces they
don't have control over
so I mean that is a a real uh
violation um and also you know although
people don't realize this you know if
you if you talk to Americans about this
they they say they believe that mental
illnesses are caused by uh brain brain
disorders
chemical um imbalances genetic problems
but they really don't believe that if
you if you question them
so if you do believe that you actually
believe that human beings don't have any
control over the faculties they
use to live their lives they don't have
control over their thoughts their
emotions their intentions their behavior
which is extremely disempowering and
cynical um and of course on the other
side of that is if you believe that you
take responsibility away from people
they're not responsible for whatever is
going on with them so
these are ways in which uh you know this
is extremely abusive and uh
definitely
uh uh political abuses uh of
Psychiatry so
um how how does this go on why why why
are we able oh by the way it's getting
worse this is getting worse California
and New York California and New York
City are both making it easier to
involuntarily commit people to hospitals
and to forcibly treat people and you
know part of the problem is that I I've
already mentioned that you know the
treatment they get is not going to be
helpful the average length of stay in a
mental hospital in the United States is
10 days so what's going to happen let's
say you take a person off the street
what this this is being done in the
guise of of an answer to
homelessness right got all these
homeless people in the United States any
City you go into a lot of homeless
people uh so you take a person off the
street put them in a hospital they're
going to be in there for 10 days they're
going to be drugged with a very toxic
drug they're going to go to a couple of
group meetings which aren't isn't going
to help them because it's not based on
their individual
situation right uh they're going to
maybe have one session with a
psychiatrist which is going to be all
about medication and then they're going
to be sent back out so unless we build a
lot more Mental
Hospitals this isn't really going to
make much of a
difference so how is it that this goes
on how is it that the public supports
this that the general public
doesn't uh raise hell about this and and
question elected officials and
politicians wait a second what's going
on well I'm going to um
I'm GNA piggyback on a an idea of a guy
named David
Cohen uh who is a uh professor at UCLA
in School of Social Work and who studied
psychiatric medicine and now is studying
involuntarily commitment a terrific guy
David Cohen Dr David Cohen David gave a
talk um about six years ago at a meeting
of the of Madden America in which they
showed films uh kind of about about the
harm done by Psychiatry
and biopsychiatry and what David said is
he said well how is it that Psychiatry
me maintains its Authority in this
country that Psychiatry maintains its
Authority and its
reputation uh when when there's so much
evidence that it's
harmful it's it's a it's its treatments
don't work they're not effective they
hurt people there's no scientific
Foundation underneath their treatments
and their beliefs how is it that they
maintain their
Authority and his answer is that the
general public believes that
Psychiatry protects them from crazy
people that that the general society
believes that they believe against the
evidence that people diagnosed with
schizophrenia people experiencing
psychosis are
dangerous and Psychiatry protects them
uh and I think there's a lot of Truth to
that
um so but I think there's another
reason there's another reason why this
is going on and there's another reason
why elected
officials uh governments are more and
more locking people up locking homeless
people up putting people in hospitals
against their will involuntarily
committed people
and I
think um a lot of it is uh what I would
call unconscious guilt and shame on the
part of elected
officials people in
power and I would say it's
unconscious uh uh because I don't think
people are doing this
consciously uh with conscious intention
but I think they are doing
it uh at a level of intentionality and
and and look we all know
that one of the really scary things
about being a human being is some of our
Behavior maybe much of our behavior is
driven by forces we're not aware
of um and uh you know that's really
perverse because if we're not aware of
the forces what do we do about it but so
let me tell you why I think
this um
the Congress of the United States
appropriates every year $3
trillion uh to the federal government to
do what the federal government does3
trillion dollar okay now about half of
that more than half is um not
discretionary by that I mean the
Congress really doesn't have any control
over it it's used for Medicare
Medicaid publicly supported Health Care
Social Security and interest on the
public debt so the Congress doesn't have
control over that money but the Congress
does have control over $1.3
trillion $1.3
trillion now let me tell you a
difference between a million and and a
billion 1.3 trillion is one point one
13,000 billion
right let the difference between a a
million and a
billion uh in order to count to a
million to count to a million like this
1,000 2,000 3,000 would take you three
months to count to a billion would take
you 30 years 30 years to count to one
billion now so the the Congress has $1.3
billion dollar available to it to spend
on the obligations and responsibilities
of of the federal government 800 billion
of that
folks 800 billion is spent on the
military is spent on killing people on
purchasing weapons to kill people
building weapons to kill people maintain
800 bases around the world essentially
maintain our our
Empire $800 billion dollars every
year more than half of the discretionary
money Congress has available to spend
and this year the Congress gave the
military gave the defense department $24
billion more than they asked
for
now a couple of other facts about here
we know that 10% of that money is spent
on weapons the Armed Forces don't even
want basically it's a jobs program it's
a jobs program for scientists and
engineers and the defense department has
has has uh
manufacturing operations uh defense
operations in every congressional
district in the
country
so
um that's what's going on
and we know I mean we know that with
15% of that budget oh let me say another
thing that whenever they do an audit of
the defense department there's billions
and billions of dollars of waste
waste they don't know where billions of
dollars went
even so here's the deal with 15% of that
money we could totally solve the
homeless problem in the United
States we could do what they did in
Trieste
Italy we could provide every homeless
person with a with good housing
comfortable housing every homeless
person could be provided with
comfortable housing with food with
Safety and Security with health care and
beyond that as they did in Trieste we
can make available to every homeless
person many of whom are mentally ill
diagnosed with severe mental illness we
could make available to every homeless
person the services of a coach or a case
manager or whatever you want to call the
person the community health
worker uh who could help that person um
find some meaningful to do and someone
to love right something meaningful to do
work school volunteer work uh could help
that person get into support groups uh
yoga uh
exercise art etc etc and get connected
to other
people we could provide that kind of
intensive coaching where a coach has
only a coach has maybe four people to
work with and uh and and and you know
can really make a difference in the
person's life now 15% of that budget we
could solve the problem so I really
believe that in in a way what the people
in power are doing is hiding the problem
they want to take people off the streets
so we don't see
it uh and so they don't have to
experience the guilt and the
shame from not doing something about
this problem
this is a problem that's totally
solvable in this country we know how to
do
it um I'll just give you a couple of
examples of the kind of thing we know
and we don't do anything about uh years
ago I I read about a a program for
atrisk
mothers now if you wanted if you wanted
to increase the mental health of
Americans in the long run right probably
the best thing you could do was provide
every child in this country every child
with a nurturing supportive caring
upbringing right because I mean that's
absolutely crucial to uh to the mental
health of people as they grow into
adults well years ago there was a
program that identified atrisk
mothers right so you could do that
pretty easily very young mothers
mentally ill people
mothers with mental illness addicted
mothers mothers whose whose uh mothers
whose partners are
addicted Etc so what they did was make
available to these mothers a trained
nurse social worker
counselor um to help the mother six
months before the birth and one month a
one year after but here's the deal each
of these nurses and counselors and
mothers only had three mothers to work
with three mother mothers so they were
available 247 to the mother mother's
agitated upset doesn't know what to do
she can call this person come on over I
need help so that kind of intensity of
of support to the
mother uh was what was done and it was
it worked less domestic violence less
children going into foster care but that
was a demonstration when it was taken to
scale uh each of these nurses has 30
mothers it doesn't work you can't do it
we're not willing to spend the money
that it takes to do this kind of thing
because we're spending $800 billion
dollar a year on the war
machine uh here's another
example years ago I befriended a man who
was uh severely
impaired very difficult early life
father was diagnosed with schizophrenia
mother's an alcoholic he spends his
early life in in juvenile jails foster
homes etc
etc uh good-look guy uh uh healthy
strong but extremely
impaired addicted to legal drugs illegal
drugs always on some kind of drug didn't
have the emotional emotional maturity to
work etc
etc he's on Social Security Disability
he's getting
$721 a month and he's paying
$550 for a motel room or a lousy
apartment so only has
$220 the rest of the the month to live
for food Medical Care uh
Transportation etc etc Well it can't
work so I I knew about a program we have
in the in the United States called
Section 8 Housing and what that program
does is provides people with a good
rental unit for onethird of their income
whatever their income is oneir they pay
oneir the federal government pays two3
third so I
went uh uh to the uh public housing
authority to get him signed up for that
program they wouldn't even take his
application they had a waiting list of
2,000 in this town of a
100,000 uh and I walked out feeling
ashamed of my government my government
is unwilling to put the money into a
program that's there to take it to scale
where it actually could help people who
need help so that's what's going on in
this
country uh uh
we uh don't have the political will to
to to help people uh in a safe humane
life-enhancing way we just don't and so
what we're doing is hiding the
problem um or taking what we would call
a quick and dirty a quick and dirty
approach to it rather than an approach
that we know would work just have to
spend money on it you know we had a war
on poverty uh 19 about 19 UH 60 1966 to
1974 um but we never
spent uh enough money on it to help more
than 15% of the people who were poor so
it was a nice idea but it was never uh
financed to scale and it ran a foul of
the of the of the Vietnam War
so let me go go into something that
Murphy talked a little bit about was
which is the the he hegemony of of
Psychiatry that is
supported by
beliefs that appear to be common
sense um uh but uh if if you really look
into them they aren't common sense and
but they are helpful to the to the uh
institutions in power so what are the
institutions in power in the United
States that are basically supporting
this these political
abuses um well there's the government of
course uh and then there's mainstream
Psychiatry
which well let's face it you know if you
can see four patients a day for
medication consults four patients an
hour right you can see four patients an
hour for medication consults but in
order to do therapy psycotherapy decent
psycotherapy
you can see maybe one patient an hour
you're going to make a lot more money uh
uh prescribing medic medicine right so
you got mainstream Psychiatry being
complicit and then you have the drug
companies and the drug companies are the
most most powerful Lobby in Congress the
drug companies have three lobbyist for
every Congress
person uh let's face it these decisions
about how the government spends its
money are made by 535 people that's who
makes the decision 535 people we're not
talking about uh you know something
that's
unsolvable uh involving millions and
millions of people so so these are the
institutions
um that uh are are in power let's say
over over this over the mental health of
Americans and the treatment that's
provided well you know they have an
interest in keeping things the way they
are and one of the ways they do that is
what is do what what Michelle Fuko
called uh use a dividing
practice uh basically you convince
people that the people who are quote
unquote meal
ill uh are somehow fundamentally
different um from other
people and uh do not really deserve to
be to to receive the kind of support and
care that other people deserve to
receive and you find a way to in some
way convince people that that's the
case
so um
to give you an example of of of of this
kind of what appears to be common sense
but really isn't uh I interviewed 10
people uh I did this about oh maybe
about 10 years ago and this was not a
scientific study this was uh just me
interviewing 10
people um some of them of my
friends I asked him well what what what
do you think causes mental illness
and they all said something
physiological oh it's a brain disorder
it's a chemical imbalance it's a genetic
problem and then I asked him I said well
what do you think happened to change the
brain chemistry what do you think
happened to changeed the brain the
chemistry the genetics what and they all
said oh something happened to the person
something happened to the person so I
said wait a second you you just told me
that that this was caused by some kind
of biochemical imbalance some kind of
brain disorder some kind of genetic
anomaly now you're telling me that
something happened to the person well
what what what is
it and they all went oh yeah that's
interesting yeah that's and then I ask
him the final
question here's the question do you
think there's a difference between how a
person is reacting to his or her life
situation his or her life concerns that
he or she has about her
life uh or herself is there a difference
between that and a DI diagnosable mental
illness and they all said
yes they all said
yes so that's ridiculous they just told
me
no uh it was because something happened
to the person so there's this confusion
in the general public about what mental
illness is and how it should be treated
so
so that's where we are and I think uh
um there's some other you know
another Murphy Murphy mentioned some of
the reasons why why biopsychiatry has
become so powerful The Cult of science
The Cult of
professionalism the belief in
instrumentality in
technology uh but also some other
factors you know the idea if you believe
that that people that that the state of
being the mood the thoughts the emotions
the behaviors we call mental illnesses
if you believe they're caused by
physiology you believe that people don't
have aren't to blame for them right you
take away blame not to blame it just
happen to them they're not responsible
right well of course as far as I'm
concerned it doesn't make sense to blame
anybody for anything because people
don't choose their they don't choose
their parents they don't choose their
early lives so why are we going to blame
people for anything because their early
lives and their parents have great
impact on their later lives so but
that's another reason there are forces
at work here that are very
powerful
um what are some of the other ones
uh well you know the belief in the quick
and easy solution right you know I can
take a pill and it'll solve my
problems um rather than having to learn
about myself learn how to manage myself
learn how to manage my thoughts my
emotions my perceptions my intentions so
let me say something else about the
drugs too you
know the way in which they're toxic all
psychiatric drugs
impair um they impair emotional
processing all psychiatric
drugs uh take away conscience and caring
they numb emotions
uh so Peter Kramer the author of uh
listening to Prozac a psychiatrist when
he he WR the book about how great Prozac
was uh for his patients and he said
though he said in the book he said you
know I noticed that my patients on proac
lost their
conscience they lost their conscience
they didn't care they lost some of their
caring as if that's not a
problem so uh you may not know this or
you may know
uh uh you know on on the medicine boxes
on all anti-depressant medicines there's
a blackbox
warning which says this medicine
increases the risk of suicide and
violence in people uh up to the age of
25 well if you if you if you take away
caring you increase the risk of suicide
and violence it's a no-brainer
right um uh the main reason people don't
kill themselves is because they know it
would be devastating for their families
and
friends uh if you take away caring
people are more likely to hurt other
people and hurt
themselves
um so this is another of the ways in
which
uh psychiatric medicine are
harmful so let me just say a little bit
about what do we do about this
um uh
what are we going to do about it
well there are
organizations that are working on
changing things whatever you want to
call it reform abolishing uh uh Force
treatment etc etc I've already told you
about mind
Freedom mind Freedom
International and by the way we need
money we're limping along right now so
if you know anybody who wants to donate
ww W W.M mindf freedom.org
there's the international Society for
ethical Psychiatry and
psychology uh which you can see at
www.y integrity.org I'll put these in
the
chat there's the international Society
for social for psychological and social
approaches to
psychosis which uh Murphy
mentioned um isps www .
ip- us.org
there's uh the the the the the
um what's called the um Network against
psychiatric assault which I think is a
Canadian uh
organization and there's an organization
called the National Association for
rights protection and advocacy narpa
www.arp.org
uh there are peer groups in California
that are fighting against what's going
on in California California passing laws
making it easier to involuntarily commit
people to hospitals forcibly treat
people
Etc
so
um one of the ways I look at this is
um because I I think we're up against a
pretty powerful uh Force you know and I
I I mean I'm not really confident that
we're going to be able to make a lot of
Headway in the short run against this
Force but I'm I'm encouraged by two two
examples in history okay two examples in
history one is the suffragette movement
the effort by American women to um get
the
vote and to get the right to have bank
accounts to take loans out to start
businesses Etc
so let me tell you how long that
took the first
bill to uh provide for women being able
to vote in the United States was
introduced into the United States
Congress in
1870 uh people had been talking about
that certainly 20 years prior to that it
didn't happened until
1920 so we're talking about 75 years for
for a
no-brainer to happen a no-brainer right
women being able to
vote that's a
no-brainer we look at it
now took 75
years and during those
years these women these amazing women
just worked worked worked at it they
went to conferences they sent letters to
the editor they made speeches they
talked to Pol elected
officials uh they did it for 75 years
and finally it paid
off another example is is the
dissolution of the Soviet Union it
happened in
1989 uh it seemed to happen kind of
quickly all of a sudden there's
gorbachov and yelon and the Wall comes
down oh my God happened quickly but the
seeds of that were planted in
1930 in the in the living rooms of of of
of of ordinary people talking to
themselves saying this isn't going to
work this system is not going to work
it's and you have the dissonant and the
goog and and
uh and and all of the uh the
artists
um over those years it took 60 years or
50 years
for that to eventually endend up in the
dissolution of the of the Soviet Union
so I think that's what's going to happen
in our
movement uh you know at some point uh
this is all going to
stop and uh we're going to stop the
involuntary commitment to force
treatment that's going to happen quicker
and eventually the the general public
will stop using Psychiatry say no uh
we're not going to use those tox
medicines that's not the way we want to
get help we want safe Humane
life-enhancing approaches we want
soteria houses we want open dialogue we
want hearing voices Network we want
Psychotherapy we want
acupuncture we want yoga we want art we
want help with using our thoughts and
our emotions and our intentions and our
perceptions uh in effective ways
uh so I
think
um eventually that's what'll happen
um I want to tell you about and it's
going to be the work that we're doing
you see we're doing the same work that
suff Jets did same work the dissidents
in the Soviet Union did the work that
we're doing laying the foundation
speaking Truth uh
Illuminating the the problem uh talking
to
legislators uh getting the word out etc
etc making films this is what's going on
and and and I think it's it eventually
it's going to it's going to work uh I
want to tell you about a man named Mars
Burman an author he's written a number
of books one of his books uh is called
the Twilight of American culture or I
think the Twilight of the American
Century maybe the Twilight of the
American
Century he wrote the book about you know
how the United States is in CL
he had four criteria for declining
cultures declining cultures one was
increasing inequalities of wealth and
income the second was decreasing returns
from investments in technology and you
can see the military industrial complex
as that that is a investment in
technology which does not which does not
provide help to American the American
people and then uh dumbing down of the
population and loss of spirituality I
think but what he said
was people who who who who see the
truth and okay maybe we don't know the
truth maybe we don't we think we know
the truth but since we think we know the
truth we need to spread it we need to
speak it we need to uh uh basically do
what we can to make it
happen uh what we need to do is what the
monks did during the Dark Ages what the
monks did was write down the work of the
Greeks uh write down scribe inscrib the
work of the Greek philosophers so that
it wouldn't get lost and what we're
doing in a way is also similar to what
they
did um so um let me just go over my
notes and see if there's anything
else oh let me tell you about a
particularly egregious case that's going
on right now and that is the object of a
mind Freedom Shield
alert uh which Sarah is managing there's
a woman named Don
Duba who is
incarcerated in a
forensic Hospital Military Hospital in
St Louis she's been there since
2014 basically
incarcerated
um not charged with any crime
uh not has not had a trial not allowed
to have a
lawyer
uh and here's the reason why she's there
she was working with a group of
people uh at Washington University and I
don't know it's at Washington University
and saying I don't know if that's a
public institution or not I was going to
try to find out maybe someone can Google
and find out if Washington University is
a public institution she was working
with a group that was uh essentially
administering a Federal grant working on
a Federal Grant and she began to believe
that the group was um acting
illegally was breaking the law was
violating the contract it had with the
federal government and she began to
complain and raise questions and
concerns and the people who ran
it retaliated and basically told her you
better shut up or you know we're gonna
we're going to take care of
you and they did eventually now
eventually she apparently threat made
some kind of a threat and I don't know
enough about the nature of her threat to
know whether it was a legitimate reason
to lock her up but that's what was done
to her she was locked up and she's been
locked up since
2014 um declared
incompetent with a guardian not of her
choosing so mind Freedom right now is
working on an alert trying to get her
freed um and we're getting some traction
getting some traction with state
legislators in
Missouri uh so that's another example of
the kind of thing that's going on in
this
country that is really horrible and is
essentially the uh political abuse
through the use of
Psychiatry
um so uh anything else
I guess I just follow up by by by saying
it is pretty amazing that there's not
more
concern about so many
Americans being hurt being harmed uh
with no due process rights with their
rights to due process being
violated uh and without a lot of concern
or upset about it something to wonder
about how does that happen how's that
going
on invoking
Michelle uh Melle shelf
Fuko
okay that's
it thank you so much Al thank
you and by the way Enrique you
know uh apparently you don't you have an
open slot at
11: or at
10 no if it
last from 9 H sorry 19 CS
time the last one yeah that I I thought
thought that it was going to be mind
Freedom like a collective one or
somebody else the last
one what time is that gonna
be let me double check I don't not want
to
just
c i I see on the schedule you have Ki
ubo and Rob wond scheduled for the start
in 15 minutes if I'm reading the time
correctly yeah that's correct that's 16
hours in in
Europe I'm saying after them after then
there is a a slot free if you want to
call it but honestly there is nothing
after that slot so it's
just that's 11 11
Eastern uh no 11 Mountain 10 Pacific the
reason I'm wondering Sarah Smith is on
this call with us and I don't know if
sarah' wanna want to take that slot W to
wanna uh uh uh present during that
Sarah do you want to do
that I can't hear you so sorry took me a
while to figure out how the audio Works
um I I am hesitant to take that slot I
will if if no one else wants to fill it
but um I I was
um um hoping to do my presentation on
the
27th oh okay okay well we don't have
anybody to fill that slot so it's
completely fine because it's the last
one so we we finished earlier and that's
it no no problem I will stay here if in
case somebody else connects just tell
them that on the 27th we're going to
have the Mind Freedom that we were
expecting today and that's will stay
connected to notify Sarah you don't not
need to do it today and I'm sorry that I
misunderstood well that was our it was
our
fault it was our fault yeah okay well
any questions
comments
thoughts salute
first bless bless you salute
yeah you that's a you very interesting
talk
um I you know you you you mentioned Al
that um the only states that did not
have where it was not legal to voluntary
volunt involuntarily commit someone were
Maryland Connecticut Massachusetts
that's right Murphy
outpatient yeah right and well I you
know my my work recently with hearing
voices movement I was connected to The
Wildflower Alliance I don't know if you
know them in Massachusetts I do I do
that's a great organization yes
absolutely and one of the things that I
just saw recently in their newsletter
well this summer was that there they
were um trying to oppose a bill in the
state Massachusetts state senate to
allow for involuntary outpatient
treatment so that's something that's
going on right now there's an attempt to
pass that in in Massachusetts so maybe
you know and you you're right to mention
that the cases in New York and
California you know I think we may be
going towards more involuntary treatment
uh in this country than we than we had
before um and so but I just wanted to
call that to your attention I recently
saw that from the Mind The Wildflower
Alliance um newsletter that they email
they have been trying to oppose oppose
that let's see what they can do you know
in
2021 the Congress passed a
law our Congress passed a law that um
incentivized states to pass outpatient
commitment laws gave them money gave
money to States if they
would pass outa commitment
laws and
so that's one of the things that's been
happening um so I'm glad to hear that
I'm glad they're fighting it I hope
they're successful we tried to fight it
in New Mexico and we successfully did it
for three or four years and and and uh
what we found Murphy was that the the
elected officials who were most on our
side were Republicans of a Libertarian
bent yeah they don't like the idea that
the government can force
people you know to do anything where
they don't like the idea of a
governmental Force at all but if you
force people to to be injected with a
toxic drug they basically reacted I said
no yeah okay so they were our allies
were the kind of Libertarians yeah okay
yeah it's good to have diverse um
political allies and and also in your
talk I liked how you um well you adopt
you adopted Michelle puko and some of
those other you know orientations to
power that I was mentioning I think it's
and and I I think you and you also
mentioned that there are three
pharmaceutical lobbyists for every um
elected official in Congress and I think
that's important to keep in mind and
when we talk about the system of power
or we talking about who's taking these
actions in the US we often it's easy to
sort of Imagine a they or or we imagine
the government does this but I mean it's
it's hard to say who does to me at some
degree something we might called our our
cultural belief in technology um but
also we might think of the government as
merely you know the Avenue through which
you know pharmaceutical company
priorities get enacted in into law you
know and and and and the pharmaceutical
companies don't have absolute control
over policy either it's sort of a
combination I think of sort of our our
folk culture which is influenced by the
biomedical model um
and um but I think it's important in the
US especially to try to sort sort of
maintain I don't know if we know who has
the power ultimately but it said
diversity of actors you know where the
government is is is often not all
powerful they're they're influenced by
other forces and they can also be an
ally you know and I think it's um good
to be able to enlist you know the
variety of allies that are out there I
think even also not just Libertarians I
wonder if
mainstream more mainstream Republicans
might also support this too just because
especially after the coid crisis there
was a lot of skepticism um not just on
the far right but in the mainstream
right about um you know what can we all
agree upon as evidencebased what is an
appropriate role for the government in
terms of coercing people to do things I
think actually um there there might be a
growing growing audience in the on the
center right to to be skeptical of of
coerced
treatment yeah yeah know I think we you
know uh
I might my member of a group uh called
It's a small group called Coalition
against medicalized psychiatric Psy
psychology we put out a video um uh
basically uh demonstrating the evidence
that there's an association between
psychiatric medicine and mass murders
you know that the culture is concerned
about mass
shootings well most of the shooters have
either been on medication psychiatric
medication or are on Psy character
medication and I just made the point
that these medications take away caring
and conscience and so we actually put a
video out to that effect um um because
you know apparently we're not going to
get a get rid of guns uh even assault
rifles so maybe this is another approach
but it really didn't get a lot of
traction there's a guy named John
Spagnola who um has gotten the Congress
to pass a law
um creating a a a study funding a study
of the association between medicine
psychatric medicine and and suicide
among
veterans right so he got that study
funded but it hasn't been done it's not
been implemented now unfortunately John
is a member of of Scientology of the
citizens commission for human rights
which is financed and part of
Scientology
and Scientology which do a which does a
really terrific job of
um of creating doubt Scientology does a
terrific job of creating doubt or trying
to create doubt in the general public
about the value of psychiatric medicine
and mainstream Psychiatry but but
they're considered to be a cult which
they are and and they're dismissed
they're dismissed as being a bunch of
cult uh cult people people who you know
are radicals so
um interesting yeah
um it's interesting to be aware of the
forces the forces that support this and
and uh and what we're going to have to
do to
really make headways against those
forces I do think it's good that the
United Nations is is Raising doubt about
the value of the medical
model and raising awareness about the
harm that's done by uh biopsychiatry
that treatment based on the medical
model I think it really is good that I
don't know what his name is danis danis
pruse is that his name the special R Ur
has has has yeah yes has made I think a
really coincidence yeah
that this person was actually
Shure
s
uh that danis is doing what he's doing
uh and that the United Nations is is
Raising questions well as raising
concerns about the human rights
issues uh involved with this so that is
a really posit real positive you
know
may I ask who's paying for the bills for
the drugs for the
medication who who pay who's paying
who's paying who's paying for the drugs
um
well it's being paid by the the drugs
are being paid for by the the the
private insurers the private insurance
companies but also by Medicaid by
Medicaid and Medicare Care by the
federal
government um and that's a good question
enri
because Medicaid will
pay uh for the drugs Medicaid which is a
federally a federal program to pay for
healthare for lowincome people Medicare
which is uh health care for uh for
seniors Medicare and Medicaid pays for
the drugs but they won't pay for a
soteria house or for open dialogue
open dialogue approach to helping people
with psychosis or for a healing homes
which was a a program developed by
Karina
hackinson in in Sweden based on the heel
Belgium model what they did in Sweden
what Karina did was train families she
trained families many of them were Farm
families in how to provide supportive
environments for people going through
psychosis a safe support of affirming
environment she trained Families how to
do that
uh they placed people experiencing
psychosis with those families they
provided supervision to the families and
therapy to the patients and
effective but Medicaid won't pay for
that Medicare won't pay for that so
we've got this problem of
instrumentality if you want to call it
the cult of professionalism belief in
psychiatrist The Cult of science will
pay for the high-tech approaches quote
unquote we'll pay for the mechanistic
approaches but we won't pay for the safe
supportive
affirming uh approaches based on
relationship based on the understanding
that psychosis is a move by a wounded
psyche to heal
itself um based on the evidence that
tells us that if you provide a person in
a psychotic experience with that kind of
safety support and affirmation and
relationship they will recover
they will recover at high rates at much
higher rates you know everybody should
read this book this book I'll put it in
the chat after I stop it's called
anatomy of an
epidemic anatomy of an epidemic Magic
Bullets psychiatric drugs and the
astonishing rise of mental illness in
America by Robert
Whitaker Robert Whitaker is a science
journalist uh terrific uh journalist
scientist
in that book he explains what
happened how mainstream Psychiatry took
over the mental health system and how
they did it based on phony
research on fake
research um and he looked at all the
research and so he writes based on his
study of all the research and he
presents convincing evidence that the
psychiatric drugs actually hurt people
and that people recover the people who
recover from psychosis are people who
stopped using the drugs or never took
the drugs um and he one of his pieces of
evidence is that the the number of
Americans uh who receive Social Security
based on a mental illness Social
Security Disability based on a mental
illness diagnosis has risen from 1 in
750 in 1950
to 1 in 75
today and he points out that the the
recovery rate from schizophrenia using
the main using conventional treatment
hasn't increased since
1900 it's still less than
15% so you know the system that we're
using the conventional treatment just
isn't working it doesn't help and you
have soteria houses open dialogue open
dialogue reports an 80% recovery for
recovery from first
episode and it's now beginning to be
used in the United States thank God but
it's still not in the mainstream it's
still not paid for by the insurers or by
the federal
government by the way I I I interviewed
an open dialogue practitioner recently
in part of this new research project I'm
doing and asked her how Insurance works
with her and she actually says she
insurance will pay for it um you just
have to know how to how to you know you
you can actually bill you can build it
as you build it as family therapy the
thing it doesn't include you can't have
multiple mental health practitioners
which you should have in the open
dialogue model insurance won't pay for
that but she says you can kind of
approximate it in private
prce thank you for pointing that out
because I actually I am uh I am
participating in an open dialogue uh
approach with a patient and I'm getting
paid by the insurance company so
good so you just you know
classified as family therapy and you can
get
paid yeah